# Endpoint-geodesic-problems
This repository contains some source codes for solving the Endpoint geodesic problems

The codes are released to reproduce the experiments reported in the following journal paper:

Lyle Noakes and Erchuan Zhang, "Finding geodesics joining given points", Advances in Computational Mathematics, 2022.

Please acknowledge the authors by citing the above paper in any academic publications that have made use of this package or part of it.

## Get started

***The code is tested in Matlab 2020b***

## Algorithm Prototypes

***Experiments on ellipsoid***

-- ellipsoid_demo1.m

Show the geodesic generated by Newton's method on ellipsoid.

-- ellipsoid_demo2.m

Compare the run time of all methods (Riemannian gradient descent, Leapfrog, Newton's method).

-- exp_pv_ellipsoid.m

Find exponential map on ellipsoid.

-- log_xy_ellipsoid.m

Find the geodesic joining two given points on ellipsoid, where they are nearby. (Use shooting method)

-- dlog_ellipsoid.m

Calculate some derivatives that involed in the paper.

-- Geodesic_ellipsoid_gradient.m

Implement Algorithm 1 in the paper.

-- Geodesic_ellipsoid_leapfrog.m

Find the geodesic joining two given points on ellipsoid by Leapfrog.

-- Geodesic_ellipsoid_newton.m

Implement Algorithm 2 in the paper.

***Experiments on SO(3) with left-invariant only metric***

-- LSO3_demo1.m

Show the geodesic generated by Newton's method on SO(3).

-- LSO3_demo2.m

Compare the run time of all methods (Riemannian gradient descent, Leapfrog, Newton's method).

-- exp_pv_LSO3.m

Find exponential map on SO(3).

-- log_xy_LSO3.m

Find the geodesic joining two given points on SO(3), where they are nearby. (Use shooting method)

-- dlog_LSO3.m

Calculate some derivatives that involed in the paper.

-- Geodesic_LSO3_gradient.m

Implement Algorithm 1 in the paper.

-- Geodesic_LSO3_leapfrog.m

Find the geodesic joining two given points on SO(3) by Leapfrog.

-- Geodesic_LSO3_newton.m

Implement Algorithm 2 in the paper.

----
Copyright (C) 2022 - All Rights Reserved 

Installation and use of this software for academic, non-profit, or government-sponsored research purposes is hereby granted. Use of the software under this license is restricted to non-commercial purposes. COMMERCIAL USE OF THE SOFTWARE REQUIRES A SEPARATELY EXECUTED WRITTEN LICENSE AGREEMENT with the copyright holder.

Any use of the software, and any modifications, improvements, or derivatives to the software the user(s) may create (collectively, “Improvements”) must be solely for internal, non-commercial purposes. A user of the software shall not distribute or transfer the software or Improvements to any person or third parties without prior written permission from copyright holder.

Any publication of results obtained with the software must acknowledge its use by an appropriate citation to the article titled "Fast Discrete Distribution Clustering Using Wasserstein Barycenter with Sparse Support" published in the IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing in 2017.

ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER MAKES NO REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY PATENT OR OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Author: Erchuan Zhang, Edith Cowan University, erchuanzhang@gmail.com
